this truly shocking secret to a great
vegetable soup is sponsored by
Squarespace
the shockingly simple solution to all of
your website needs get 10% off your site
by using my referral link in the
description okay if you want to make a
great vegetable soup but the first step
is to chop up some form of onion on
using a shallot and then you got to
slowly caramelize this for half an hour
with a star anise this creates your
mommy sulfur compounds
something-something molecular gastronomy
and you know just chop it up and put it
in a pot with some water and boil it
that's the secret
then you peel a carrot you chop it up
into little pieces and you boil those
two but then what you gonna do is spend
35 hours of your ever shortening life
making homemade chicken stock or just
buy the most expensive carton stock they
have at the most bougie grocery store in
town and then no just leave it in the
damn water and let it boil not every
meal has to have an animal in it and
when you cook vegetables in plain old
water it's amazing how much you can
actually taste them onions especially
make a delicious broth with no other
ingredients than water heat and time the
carrots will bring additional sweetness
and I'm starting with the longest
cooking ingredients first onions and
hard things like carrots okay the next
super-secret special step is to concasse
a tomato you take a tomato and you boil
it for about 10 seconds to release the
skin from the flesh underneath then you
fish it out and plunge it into ice water
this halts the cooking and causes the
skin to contract and split making it
easy to peel off because no
self-respecting person would have a
vegetable soup with tomato skin in it
then you cut the tomato open and you cut
out the bitter seeds and that nasty
acidic gel that surrounds them you want
to let that all go to waste then you
just take the little bit of outer solid
flesh that's left and you dice that up
into perfect little squares and then you
just take any halfway decent tomato chop
it up into some random chunks and put it
in some water and boil it oh jesus take
the wheel on this one look I'm not
saying that you'll never want to take
the skin off of a tomato but in the soup
cares it's one tomato that just won't be
that much skin in there and nobody will
notice and if they do they won't care
besides the skins are rich in lycopene a
great antioxidant and they're filled
with pectin which will thicken your soup
as it cools and the whole seeds and gel
thing I use tomatoes because they're
acidic I want acidity in my food why
would I cut it out and I don't know
maybe the seeds are bitter insufficient
concentration but not in a vegetable
soup just chop it up into some random
chunks and boil it already I usually do
this after I've got all the hard
ingredients in the water and that seems
to give the tomatoes the perfect amount
of cooking time to fall apart while
still retaining some freshness now the
next secret is to grab some white wine
this will add fruity sweetness and
acidity to the broth while also
extracting alcohol soluble flavors from
the vegetables and yeah actually yeah
that's totally something that I would do
it tastes great and it really
compensates for the lack of animal broth
if that's something that you want to
avoid if you don't want to use alcohol I
would recommend a much smaller quantity
of white balsamic vinegar just a splash
at the end to taste after the hard
vegetables have been cooking for about
20 minutes I usually put in some form of
cabbage this is Tuscan kale you could
use any Brassica but what's great for
soup is a kind with crinkly leaves these
deliver much more broth per square inch
to your mouth which gives them a really
satisfying kind of juicy texture in the
soup savoy cabbage is also great for the
same reason I'm just chopping those up
into little ribbons and in it goes the
other ingredients could cook forever but
brassicas I think get a little nasty
when you overcook them so we're kind of
on a timeline now I cook those for about
10 minutes this is looking a little too
thick to me more like a stew than a soup
but you can always add water you can't
take it away so I tend to lean on the
side of my soup being too thick until
I'm ready to make final adjustments then
I go and chop up some garlic I'll turn
the heat off and throw this in at the
very end to preserve its pungency that's
kind of a classic minestrone technique
fresh garlic right at the end I also
like to dump in some frozen peas at the
end frozen peas are delicious and sweet
and convenient they add bright green
color to compensate for the fact that
the cabbage is gone a little bit brown
by now also the fact that there
hold will help to cool this soup down to
eating temperature faster water store is
an incredible amount of energy it takes
a long time to cool down which is
important for not only you know not
burning your mouth but also because the
dissolved pectins in the broth won't
start to thicken things up until this
cools down a bit I can also add some
cold water to cool things down as I said
this looked like it needed a little bit
more water to me and now that this is
eating temperature I can just season it
until I like how it tastes this is a lot
of food I think it needs a lot of salt
but just taste it until you like it time
to ladle this out into a bowl and I
might tear in some fresh basil or any
other herb right at the very end other
thing that I do right before I eat is
drizzle in some olive oil nice fruity
raw olive oil and I don't really stir it
in I like big sparkling bubbles on top
not only does this taste amazing but it
helps your body to absorb the fat
soluble vitamins in the veggies that is
so good and comically easy and cheap for
twenty thousand years since the advent
of water safe pottery I'm willing to bet
you that the single most popular recipe
for food has been take whatever you have
boil it in some water for a while and
then eat it
it's a classic because it works and when
you're cooking for yourself there's no
extra points for a degree of difficulty
and you know what maybe it's just a
placebo effect but this is so good for
me that I feel better immediately after
I eat it just as you might feel better
after you get that website up and
running that you know you probably
should have whether it's just a simple
personal portfolio site or a bio with
some links like my site here or a
full-blown online store Squarespace has
literally everything that you need
really everything these are all the
things I can just drop into any page on
my site with a simple click you can
register a domain choose a template
that's right for you and then just drop
in your text and your pictures there's
even a built in image editor you can
adjust every element to your liking or
adjust nothing at all just buy the site
off the rack
actually it's free to start building a
site at squarespace.com but when you're
ready to publish it or buy a domain just
tell them I sent you and you'll get 10%
off you're a grown person with important
things to do there's no honor in
building a website the hard way just as
there's no honor in making your
own dinner the hard way just chop it up
put it in some water and boil it